Temporarily disable incompatible portals (#291)
hyprwm/hyprland-wiki: pages/Useful Utilities/Hyprland-desktop-portal.md

{{< hint type=important >}}
It's recommended to uninstall any other portal implementations to avoid conflicts with the `-hyprland` or `-wlr` ones.

`-kde` and `-gnome` portals are known to cause issues.

> The `-kde` portal is unfortunately a hard dep of `plasma-integration` in Arch Linux, so to uninstall it,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `-kde` portal is unfortunately a hard dependency of `plasma-integration` in Arch Linux. To uninstall it,
```
We try not to use abbreviations.

> you'll need to `pacman -Rnsdd xdg-desktop-portal-kde`, which skips all dependency checks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
run the command `pacman -Rnsdd xdg-desktop-portal-kde`, which skips all dependency checks.
```
Generally we don't address the readers directly in a wiki, as it's unprofessional. There may be some parts where the text *does* address the readers, but those need cleanup.

> Both `-wlr` and `-hyprland` installed at once will also cause conflicts. Choose one and uninstall the other.

Reviewer: Not sure about Arch or other distros, but on NixOS having both is completely fine. `wlr` will be simply ignored.
@vaxerski thoughts?

Reviewer 2: it's not about OS but about buggy xdp stuff. On some systems xdp will shit itself.

Reviewer: Alright, fair.

If you want to keep any incompatible portal installed you can try moving the relvant `.portal` file out of
'/usr/share/xdg-desktop-portal/portals/' to temporarily disable the portal. A script and the `exec-once`
directive can be used to automate this process at startup:

```bash

> #!/bin/sh
> # usage: script-path portal-name [en/disable]
> #   args:
> #     portal-name: the name of the .portal file in /usr/share/xdg-desktop-portal/portals/ without the extension
> #     [en/disable]: optional - wheter to move the file into $ENABLED_PORTAL_DIR to enable it,
> #                              or to move it into $DISABLED_PORTAL_DIR to disable it. The portal will be toggled
> #                              if this argument is ommited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#!/bin/sh
# usage: $0 portal-name [enable/disable]
# args:
#     portal-name: the name of the .portal file in /usr/share/xdg-desktop-portal/portals/ without the extension
#     [enable/disable]: optional - whether to move the file into $ENABLED_PORTAL_DIR to enable it,
#                              or to move it into $DISABLED_PORTAL_DIR to disable it. The portal will be toggled
#                              if this argument is omitted.
```

ENABLED_PORTAL_DIR="/usr/share/xdg-desktop-portal/portals"
# needs to be created manually
DISABLED_PORTAL_DIR="/usr/share/xdg-desktop-portal/disabled-portals"

function is_enabled {
  [ -f "$ENABLED_PORTAL_DIR/$1.portal" ]
}

function is_disabled {
  [ -f "$DISABLED_PORTAL_DIR/$1.portal" ]
}

function enable {
  mv "$DISABLED_PORTAL_DIR/$1.portal" "$ENABLED_PORTAL_DIR/$1.portal"
}

function disable {
  mv "$ENABLED_PORTAL_DIR/$1.portal" "$DISABLED_PORTAL_DIR/$1.portal"
}

PORTAL=$1
ENABLE=${2:-$(is_enabled $PORTAL && echo "disable" || echo "enable")}

if [ $ENABLE = "enable" ]; then
  is_disabled $PORTAL && enable $PORTAL
else
  is_enabled $PORTAL && disable $PORTAL
fi
```

> The incompatible portal can then be re-enabled with the same script instide the autostart mechanisim of the intented

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The incompatible portal can then be re-enabled with the same script inside the autostart mechanisim of the intented
```
